## Motivation 
Sophistication and complexity of artificial intelligence and its demand in healthcare applications have sparked our interest in developing efficient methods to design real-time biomedical systems for detection and prediction of symptoms of complex diseases or abnormalities. Sleep apnea is one of the leading causes of sudden death around the globe, particularly in neonatal infants and adults aged over 50 years and the methods of pre-screening and detecting such abnormality are still in progress. Various sensor technologies adopting artificial intelligence in detecting and predicting of sleep apnea have been developed in recent years leading to the rapid progress in biomedical research. Based on multiple literature reviews, we have developed the idea of integrating machine learning models onto hardware and designing a real-time sleep apnea detection system. By using our proposed energy efficient design technique called DeepSAC (Shift-Accumulate Based Deep Learning Hardware Model), we are introducing a compact, energy efficient, smart, and portable system capable of detecting apnea in real-time.
## Description
In this project we propose to design a feedforward neural network (FNN) model based digital signal processing circuit which is capable of detecting sleep apnea. The design-model takes in pre-processed digital data from two types of biomedical sensors: 1) single channel ECG sensor data and 2) blood oxygen saturation level: SpO2 to detect sleep apnea. Figure.1 showcases the block diagram of the overall system, and the red block indicates our targeted design element. The novelty of this design is the use of digital shifters instead of multipliers to reduce power consumption by 13x times [^1]. The proposed DeepSAC technique is a significant improvement compared to the design method introduced in [^2]. According to **Figure.1** our proposed pre-trained FNN inference module takes in digitally processed input dataset from the two sensors and results in binary output (1: sleep apnea and 0: absence of sleep apnea/normal condition). 
